.TH TYDIRIUM 1 "July 2025" "tydirium 1.4.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tydirium \- Email authentication checker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tydirium
[\fI\-qvhV\fR]
[\fIdomain\fR|\fIemail@domain\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tydirium
is a comprehensive email authentication checker that validates SPF, DKIM, and DMARC records to ensure your emails pass through modern email systems.
.PP
"It's an older email, sir, but it checks out."
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-q
Quick mode. Checks only 3 DNS servers instead of the full list.
.TP
.BR \-v
Verbose mode. Shows detailed output including raw DNS records and additional checks.
.TP
.BR \-h
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V
Display version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Check email authentication for a domain:
.PP
.nf
.RS
tydirium example.com
.RE
.fi
.PP
Check email authentication for an email address:
.PP
.nf
.RS
tydirium user@example.com
.RE
.fi
.PP
Quick check using only 3 DNS servers:
.PP
.nf
.RS
tydirium -q example.com
.RE
.fi
.PP
Verbose output with detailed information:
.PP
.nf
.RS
tydirium -v example.com
.RE
.fi
.SH CHECKS PERFORMED
.PP
.B SPF (Sender Policy Framework)
.RS
Validates SPF record syntax, policy strictness, include chains, and redirect handling.
.RE
.PP
.B DKIM (DomainKeys Identified Mail)
.RS
Auto-discovers DKIM selectors, checks key strength, tracks DNS propagation across multiple providers.
.RE
.PP
.B DMARC (Domain-based Message Authentication)
.RS
Checks policy enforcement level, reporting configuration, subdomain policy, and deployment percentage.
.RE
.PP
.B Additional Checks
.RS
MX record verification, blacklist status, BIMI record detection, MTA-STS and TLS reporting (verbose mode).
.RE
.SH DNS SERVERS
.PP
tydirium checks propagation across multiple DNS providers including:
Cloudflare (1.1.1.1), Google (8.8.8.8), OpenDNS, Quad9, and others.
In quick mode (-q), only the first three are checked.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution
.TP
.B 1
Error in execution (missing dependencies, invalid options, etc.)
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
Requires the
.BR dig (1)
command for DNS lookups. On most systems, this is provided by the bind-utils or dnsutils package.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/tydirium
The tydirium executable
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/doc/tydirium/
Documentation directory
.SH BUGS
.PP
Report bugs at: https://github.com/agentstation/tydirium/issues
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
AgentStation (https://agentstation.ai)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dig (1),
.BR host (1),
.BR nslookup (1)
.PP
Full documentation at: https://github.com/agentstation/tydirium